README.rst, before:

.. image:: https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/control/badges/version.svg
   :target: https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/control

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/control.svg
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/control/

.. image:: https://github.com/python-control/python-control/actions/workflows/python-package-conda.yml/badge.svg
   :target: https://github.com/python-control/python-control/actions/workflows/python-package-conda.yml

.. image:: https://github.com/python-control/python-control/actions/workflows/install_examples.yml/badge.svg
   :target: https://github.com/python-control/python-control/actions/workflows/install_examples.yml

.. image:: https://github.com/python-control/python-control/actions/workflows/control-slycot-src.yml/badge.svg
   :target: https://github.com/python-control/python-control/actions/workflows/control-slycot-src.yml

.. image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/python-control/python-control/badge.svg
   :target: https://coveralls.io/r/python-control/python-control

Python Control Systems Library
==============================

The Python Control Systems Library is a Python module that implements basic
operations for analysis and design of feedback control systems.


Have a go now!
==============
Try out the examples in the examples folder using the binder service.

.. image:: https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg
 :target: https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/python-control/python-control/HEAD





Features
--------

- Linear input/output systems in state-space and frequency domain
- Block diagram algebra: serial, parallel, and feedback interconnections
- Time response: initial, step, impulse
- Frequency response: Bode and Nyquist plots
- Control analysis: stability, reachability, observability, stability margins
- Control design: eigenvalue placement, linear quadratic regulator
- Estimator design: linear quadratic estimator (Kalman filter)


Links
=====

- Project home page: http://python-control.org
- Source code repository: https://github.com/python-control/python-control
- Documentation: http://python-control.readthedocs.org/
- Issue tracker: https://github.com/python-control/python-control/issues
- Mailing list: http://sourceforge.net/p/python-control/mailman/


Dependencies
============

The package requires numpy, scipy, and matplotlib.  In addition, some routines
use a module called slycot, that is a Python wrapper around some FORTRAN
routines.  Many parts of python-control will work without slycot, but some
functionality is limited or absent, and installation of slycot is recommended
(see below). The Slycot wrapper can be found at:

https://github.com/python-control/Slycot

Installation
============

Conda and conda-forge
---------------------

The easiest way to get started with the Control Systems library is
using `Conda <https://conda.io>`_.

The Control Systems library has been packages for the `conda-forge
<https://conda-forge.org>`_ Conda channel, and as of Slycot version
0.3.4, binaries for that package are available for 64-bit Windows,
OSX, and Linux.

To install both the Control Systems library and Slycot in an existing
conda environment, run::

  conda install -c conda-forge control slycot

Pip
---

To install using pip::

  pip install slycot   # optional; see below
  pip install control

If you install Slycot using pip you'll need a development environment
(e.g., Python development files, C and Fortran compilers).

Distutils
---------

To install in your home directory, use::

  python setup.py install --user

To install for all users (on Linux or Mac OS)::

  python setup.py build
  sudo python setup.py install


Development
===========

Code
----

You can check out the latest version of the source code with the command::

  git clone https://github.com/python-control/python-control.git

Testing
-------

You can run the unit tests with `pytest`_ to make sure that everything is
working correctly.  Inside the source directory, run::

  pytest -v

or to test the installed package::

  pytest --pyargs control -v

.. _pytest: https://docs.pytest.org/

License
-------

This is free software released under the terms of `the BSD 3-Clause
License <http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause>`_.  There is no
warranty; not even for merchantability or fitness for a particular
purpose.  Consult LICENSE for copying conditions.

When code is modified or re-distributed, the LICENSE file should
accompany the code or any subset of it, however small.  As an
alternative, the LICENSE text can be copied within files, if so
desired.

Contributing
------------

Your contributions are welcome!  Simply fork the GitHub repository and send a
`pull request`_.

.. _pull request: https://github.com/python-control/python-control/pulls

Please see the `Developer's Wiki`_ for detailed instructions.

.. _Developer's Wiki: https://github.com/python-control/python-control/wiki

Commit message:

Modernize build system with PEP517

README.rst, after:

.. image:: https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/control/badges/version.svg
   :target: https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/control

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/control.svg
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/control/

.. image:: https://github.com/python-control/python-control/actions/workflows/python-package-conda.yml/badge.svg
   :target: https://github.com/python-control/python-control/actions/workflows/python-package-conda.yml

.. image:: https://github.com/python-control/python-control/actions/workflows/install_examples.yml/badge.svg
   :target: https://github.com/python-control/python-control/actions/workflows/install_examples.yml

.. image:: https://github.com/python-control/python-control/actions/workflows/control-slycot-src.yml/badge.svg
   :target: https://github.com/python-control/python-control/actions/workflows/control-slycot-src.yml

.. image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/python-control/python-control/badge.svg
   :target: https://coveralls.io/r/python-control/python-control

Python Control Systems Library
==============================

The Python Control Systems Library is a Python module that implements basic
operations for analysis and design of feedback control systems.


Have a go now!
==============
Try out the examples in the examples folder using the binder service.

.. image:: https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg
 :target: https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/python-control/python-control/HEAD





Features
--------

- Linear input/output systems in state-space and frequency domain
- Block diagram algebra: serial, parallel, and feedback interconnections
- Time response: initial, step, impulse
- Frequency response: Bode and Nyquist plots
- Control analysis: stability, reachability, observability, stability margins
- Control design: eigenvalue placement, linear quadratic regulator
- Estimator design: linear quadratic estimator (Kalman filter)


Links
=====

- Project home page: http://python-control.org
- Source code repository: https://github.com/python-control/python-control
- Documentation: http://python-control.readthedocs.org/
- Issue tracker: https://github.com/python-control/python-control/issues
- Mailing list: http://sourceforge.net/p/python-control/mailman/


Dependencies
============

The package requires numpy, scipy, and matplotlib.  In addition, some routines
use a module called slycot, that is a Python wrapper around some FORTRAN
routines.  Many parts of python-control will work without slycot, but some
functionality is limited or absent, and installation of slycot is recommended
(see below). The Slycot wrapper can be found at:

https://github.com/python-control/Slycot

Installation
============

Conda and conda-forge
---------------------

The easiest way to get started with the Control Systems library is
using `Conda <https://conda.io>`_.

The Control Systems library has been packages for the `conda-forge
<https://conda-forge.org>`_ Conda channel, and as of Slycot version
0.3.4, binaries for that package are available for 64-bit Windows,
OSX, and Linux.

To install both the Control Systems library and Slycot in an existing
conda environment, run::

  conda install -c conda-forge control slycot

Pip
---

To install using pip::

  pip install slycot   # optional; see below
  pip install control

If you install Slycot using pip you'll need a development environment
(e.g., Python development files, C and Fortran compilers).

Installing from source
----------------------

To install from source, get the source code of the desired branch or release
from the github repository or archive, unpack, and run from within the
toplevel `python-control` directory::

  pip install .


Development
===========

Code
----

You can check out the latest version of the source code with the command::

  git clone https://github.com/python-control/python-control.git

Testing
-------

You can run the unit tests with `pytest`_ to make sure that everything is
working correctly.  Inside the source directory, run::

  pytest -v

or to test the installed package::

  pytest --pyargs control -v

.. _pytest: https://docs.pytest.org/

License
-------

This is free software released under the terms of `the BSD 3-Clause
License <http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause>`_.  There is no
warranty; not even for merchantability or fitness for a particular
purpose.  Consult LICENSE for copying conditions.

When code is modified or re-distributed, the LICENSE file should
accompany the code or any subset of it, however small.  As an
alternative, the LICENSE text can be copied within files, if so
desired.

Contributing
------------

Your contributions are welcome!  Simply fork the GitHub repository and send a
`pull request`_.

.. _pull request: https://github.com/python-control/python-control/pulls

Please see the `Developer's Wiki`_ for detailed instructions.

.. _Developer's Wiki: https://github.com/python-control/python-control/wiki
